# Contributors' Guidelines

Guidelines for contributing to the __[Awesome Interactive Fiction]__ project.

-----

**Table of Contents**


<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" bracket="round" autoanchor="false" lowercase="only_ascii" uri_encoding="true" levels="1,2,3,4" -->

- [Pull Requests vs Issues](#pull-requests-vs-issues)
- [Submitting Contents via Pull Requests](#submitting-contents-via-pull-requests)
    - [Source Files Organization](#source-files-organization)
    - [Validating Contents Before Submitting](#validating-contents-before-submitting)
    - [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
        - [Asciidoctor Ruby](#asciidoctor-ruby)
        - [EditorConfig](#editorconfig)
        - [EClint](#eclint)
- [Proposing Contents via Issues](#proposing-contents-via-issues)
- [External Links](#external-links)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

-----


# Pull Requests vs Issues

You can contribute to the __[Awesome Interactive Fiction]__ project via:

- [pull requests][X-PRs]
- [issues][X-issues]

The former contribution method is the preferred one, for you'll be directly contributing your contents to the [AsciiDoc] source files; but it's more indicated for those willing to collaborate to the project on the long run, for it requires some initial setup steps, and knowledge of AsciiDoc.

Issues are useful for discussion and planning, but can also be used to propose new material by those who don't know AsciiDoc, or simply wish to propose adding a link and don't want to go through all the trouble of forking the repository.

# Submitting Contents via Pull Requests

Here are some notes and guidelines for those willing to contribute to the project via Git.

## Source Files Organization

The source files of the __Awesome IF__ document are stored inside:

- [`/docs_src/`][docs_src]

For editing convenience, the (rather long) __Awesome IF__ document was split into multiple files — one file per document section. (More info in [`/docs_src/README.md`][README md]).

The [`README.adoc`][README ad] file that you see in the repository main page is generated by preprocessing all the source files into a single [AsciiDoc] document, so that visitors landing on the repository will be presented with a preview of the full __Awesome IF__ document.
This duplicate document is necessary because [GitHub does not currently support AsciiDoc `include::` directives][#1095].

> __IMPORTANT__ — You should not edit the [`README.adoc`][README ad] file, for all changes would be overwritten when the project is updated. Edit its source files in [`/docs_src/`][docs_src] instead.

## Validating Contents Before Submitting

Before creating a pull request, you should first validate locally that all changed files are compliant to the [EditorConfig] settings of this project.

The tool of choice for validating this repository is the __[EClint]__ validation tool (Node.js) — the tool used on [Travis CI] to validate all commits and pull requests.

To execute the validation tests locally, you can either:

1. Run in your shell the [`./validate.sh`](./validate.sh) script, or
2. Open a shell/CMD in the project root and type:

        $ eclint check


## System Requirements

### Asciidoctor Ruby

Source documents are in [AsciiDoc] format, designed for [Asciidoctor]  (Ruby), so you'll need to install the [Asciidoctor Ruby gem] on your machine to be able to build and preview the edited document.

### EditorConfig

This repository relies on [EditorConfig] to enforce consistent code styles in the project and across different editors.

Many modern editors will automatically pick-up the correct settings from the [`.editorconfig`](.editorconfig) file, so you won't have to worry about details like indentation size and style, etc.

If your editor doesn't natively support EditorConfig, you should [find and install a third party plug-in].

### EClint

EditorConfig validation of the project files is carried out via [Travis CI] on every commit and pull request using the __[EClint]__ validation tool (Node.js).

You should install __[EClint]__ on your machine via NPM, in order to check locally that all files pass the validation test, before submitting a pull request:

    npm install -g eclint

In any case, neither the use of an EditorConfig plug-in nor the __ECLint__ tool are mandatory; they are just highly recommended ways to optimize your workflow locally and to help preserving code consistency in the repository.


# Proposing Contents via Issues

The [repository issues] can be freely used to propose new links, discuss the project, offer advise, ask questions, or anything else that is related to the project goals — there are no strict rules regarding issues, for it's unlikely that this project will ever end up being sumberged in thousands of pending issues.

In the long term, it's likely that most contributions will come via issues, from visitors who noticed that some resources are not listed, and [open an issue] to mention their omission and provide links to them.

# External Links

- [AsciiDoc] — WikiPedia page.
- [Asciidoctor]
    + [Asciidoctor User Manual]
- [EditorConfig]
    + [EClint]

<!-- sep -->

- [GitHub Help]:
    + [About pull requests][PRs]

Some useful articles and tutorials for Git newbies:

- [Github's Fork & Pull Workflow for Git Beginners] — introductory article by Tom Hombergs.

<!-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               REFERENCE LINKS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------>

[Awesome Interactive Fiction]: https://github.com/tajmone/awesome-interactive-fiction/ "Visit the Awesome Interactive Fiction project on GitHub"

[GitHub Help]: https://help.github.com
[PRs]: https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests "Read GitHub Help on this topic"
[about issues]: https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-issues "Read GitHub Help on this topic"

[Asciidoctor]: https://asciidoctor.org/
[Asciidoctor User Manual]: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/ "Go to the Asciidoctor Manual"
[Asciidoctor Ruby gem]: https://rubygems.org/gems/asciidoctor/

[AsciiDoc]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AsciiDoc "Learn more about AsciiDoc, on WikiPedia"

[Travis CI]: https://travis-ci.org "Visit Travis CI website"

<!-- EditorConfig -->

[EditorConfig]: https://editorconfig.org "Visit EditorConfig website"
[find and install a third party plug-in]: https://editorconfig.org/#download "See the list of editors supporting EditorConfig"
[EClint]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/eclint "Go to EClint page at NPM"

<!-- articles & tutorials -->

[Github's Fork & Pull Workflow for Git Beginners]: https://reflectoring.io/github-fork-and-pull/

<!-- misc. -->

[#1095]: https://github.com/github/markup/issues/1095

<!-- project links -->

[repository issues]: https://github.com/tajmone/awesome-interactive-fiction/issues "Go to the repository issues section"
[open an issue]: https://github.com/tajmone/awesome-interactive-fiction/issues/new "Create a new issue"

<!-- project folders -->

[docs]: ./docs/ "Navigate to folder"
[docs_src]: ./docs_src/ "Navigate to folder"

<!-- project files -->

[awesome-if]: ./awesome-if.asciidoc
[build]: ./build.sh
[coalescer.rb]: ./asciidoc-coalescer.rb
[README ad]: ../README.adoc "View the output AsciiDoc file"
[index]: ../docs/index.html "View the output HTML file"
[README md]: ./docs_src/README.md

<!-- xrefs -->

[X-PRs]: #submitting-contents-via-pull-requests
[X-issues]: #proposing-contents-via-issues

<!-- EOF -->
